Run "run.sh" in "Assemblathon1_pipeline" directory to get assemblies using SOAPdenovo1 and SOAPdenovo2. However, to have the pipeline run correctly, we suggest reading the whole README before running it.

The pipeline can do the whole work, from downloading data to filtering contamination. However, there is one thing you have to do before running this pipeline. You should provide a bacteria sequence database, which is to large to package with this pipeline, by setting "-d" for variable "blastpara" in "profile1" and "profile2". The bacteria sequence database can be downloaded from "ftp://ftp.ncbi.nih.gov/genomes/Bacteria/all.fna.tar.gz".

There are 10 steps for Assemblathon 1 assembly using SOAPdenovo1, and 1 more step, making consensus, for using SOAPdenovo2. These steps are:
0) download file
1) filter low quality data
2) build kmer frequency table
3) correct errors
4) run "pregraph" or "all"
5) run "contig"
6) run "map"
7) run "scaff"
8) fill gaps
9) filter contamination
10) make consensus
You can decide which steps are going to be run by setting "start" and "stop" options in "run.sh".

If you have already downloaded data before, there is no need to download it again. Instead, you need to:
1) Create a directory "SOAPdenovo1/Data" under "Assemblathon1_pipeline" directory.
2) Link or copy your downloaded data to "SOAPdenovo1/Data". If the data is in bz2 format, which is the download format, decompress it by using 'bzip2 -d *.bz2'. Then compress it by using 'gzip *.fastq'. Using gz format files can save a lot of troubles since you don't have to reset configuration files.
3) Run "linkFiles.sh" in "SOAPdenovo1/Data" directory to rename files such that the pipeline can handle files correctly.
4) Create a directory "SOAPdenovo2/Data" under "Assemblathon1_pipeline" directory.
5) Link those renamed files in "Assemblathon1_pipeline/SOAPdenovo1/Data" directory to "Assemblathon1_pipeline/SOAPdenovo2/Data" directory.
Then you can start the pipeline from step 1 by setting "start" to 1 in "run.sh".

If the pipeline terminates unexpectly, you can restart it from the failed step by changing the "start" to the failed step in "run.sh".

The final scaffold file of SOAPdenovo1 pipeline is under "SOAPdenovo1/filterContamination" directory, named as "speciesA.scafSeq.GC.filter". And the final scaffold file of SOAPdenvo2 pipeline is under "SOAPdenovo2/consensus" directory, named as "speciesA.scafSeq.GC.filter.consensus".
